"I. who live in the
shelter of the Most High.
"who abide in the
shadow of the Almighty.
"will say to the Lord..."
Annie.
Are you in there?
honey. can I come in?
Sweetie?
Annie. open the door.
please?
Annie. let me in.
Open the door.
Annie.
Let me in. Annie!
Annie!
Let
me in! Let me in!
Annie. let me in. Annie!
Let me in!
Your mother.
she was schizophrenic?
These sessions are mandatory
for all staff. Sister Ann.
My mother struggled
with depression.
And. yes.
she was eventually diagnosed
with schizophrenia.
But even as a child.
I knew it was...
more.
More?
I didn't have a name for it.
Every night. she would
come into my room...
Sometimes she was my mother.
Beautiful.
Loving.
And sometimes she wasn't.
She'd comb my hair.
She'd hum that song.
She'd hurt me.
And then she'd hold
me and cry and say
the voice inside her
head made her do it.
I'm so sorry. Ann.
Abuse at the hands of
someone you trust is...
My mother was incapable
of hurting me.
she loved me.
It was the thing inside her.
She was possessed.
Ah. look who it is.
Morning. Steve.
Good morning. Thanks.
You
make a good point.
But no. we are not more sinful
today than we were in the past.
The human heart
has never changed.
Sister Ann.
What has changed
is that there are more
possessions reported today
than at any other
time in history.
We are losing a war that has
been raging for centuries.
We must hold the line.
fight for every soul.
During the
Spanish Inquisition.
the Catholic Church was responsible
for the torture and death
of thousands of
so-called heretics.
Many were simply
those suffering from
psychotic. mood. neurotic
and personality disorders.
The very structure
you're sitting in
was built in the
late 18th century
in response to a
rise in the occult.
The clergy would drag women
suspected of practicing dark arts
down to the baptismal well
to free them of evil spirits.
Countless were
drowned in holy water
till eventually. the
practice was stopped.
Sorry. Doctor.
Are you denying that there are
legitimate cases of possession?
I've been here long
enough to have seen things
that I can't account for.
But one thing I do know is the
mind is incredibly powerful.
And it loves to
play tricks on us.
To distort our reality.
Now. thankfully. the Church's approach
has evolved over the centuries.
And that's where psychiatrists
like myself come in.
The Vatican's new guidelines require
anyone suspected of possession
to undergo in-depth physical
and psychological evaluations
before being approved
the Rite of Exorcism.
How are we doing today. Clark?
Anything we can get you to eat?
Let's give this
applesauce a go. huh?
Hey.
There we go.
Oh. you like the applesauce.
I'll have to remember that.
I've ordered
a full blood panel
as I do with all of
our new patients.
She was brought in for
assessment after having seizures.
muscle spasms. incontinence
and hypersalivation.
Natalie's mother believes that
she is being possessed by
some sort of evil entity.
And I believe that the test
results will prove otherwise.
She's not
as scary as she looks.
She can hear you.
Gentlemen. shall we?
- Thank you.
- Thanks. Sister.
You didn't eat much. Mmm.
I like your. uh...
dog?
It's a train.
That has a tail.
It's an abstract.
Well. then.
you're officially
a starving artist.
I don't know why they
don't give you dessert.
Thanks.
What is it?
Oh. some sort of
nougaty goodness.
What's nougat?
I don't know.
It's really good.
You're my favorite person here.
Well. uh...
Us girls. we gotta stick
together in this place.
Yeah.
Annie.
Annie. let go.
Hey. Natalie.
Hi.
Are you feeling okay?
I don't like that room.
How did you get
out of that room?
I wanted to find you.
Nougat is a family
of confections
made with sugar and honey.
roasted nuts and
whipped egg whites.
I looked it up.
Did you know that
candies have families?
I do now.
Shall we head back to your room?
Okay.
Annie.
I'm here with you.
Elena had entered the terminal
stage of possession here.
She would tear her own clothes.
lick her own urine. eat coal.
In the terminal stage.
the possessed reaches the extremity
of physical and spiritual corruption.
Deliverance is still
possible. but...
death is imminent.
Sadly for Elena.
death came first.
Demons are Lucifer's
foot soldiers.
They know no fatigue.
no fear. no doubt.
When you enter the
room of the possessed.
you are walking
onto a battlefield.
The Devil will try
to distract you.
Sow doubt in God's word.
Always remember.
the word of God
is your most powerful weapon.
But the Rite is not just
a series of prayers.
It's a dance.
We have to feel the
cadence of the battle.
Work with our partners.
Understand the correct
entry points for attack.
Regrettably. the priests made
fatal errors in Elena's exorcism.
What would you have
done differently?
My mother talked about
hearing that voice inside.
She said the voice
didn't really want her.
It wanted me.
Because I was one of
God's chosen soldiers.
Sister.
Hi.
I'm reviewing some cases
and there seems to be some
gaps in the directory.
The records are entered
directly into the main archive.
There are no gaps.
And what about the
terminal cases?
Those are classified.
You
summoned me. Sister?
I understand that
Sister Ann has taken it upon herself
to attend another
one of your classes.
I wouldn't say "attend."
More like "infiltrate."
She's very light on her feet.
The rules of the Church
are quite clear. Father.
Only male clergy may be
enrolled in exorcism training.
For now.
You should be grateful. child.
In years past. even patient
care in exorcism school
was restricted to priests.
Now here you stand.
But what does it matter if I'll
never be able to perform an exorcism?
Is a nurse of no
benefit to her patients
because she can't
perform surgery?
Female surgeons were
once unthinkable.
Somebody had to be the first.
Yes. Well.
healing the flesh is a
very different undertaking
than healing the spirit.
As members of the Catholic
community of women.
it is not our place to free these
souls from their tormentors.
We are here to comfort.
to pray. and show mercy.
That is all.
You may return to
your duties now.
Yes. Sister.
Father.
She wants to learn.
And I want to protect her.
Clark. how do you
know that song?
We've been waiting for you.
Your mother has a pretty voice.
Hello. can anybody hear me?
Let me in.
No!
I've seen enough.
This demon appeared to go
after Sister Ann without cause.
Provoked by her mere presence.
For her own protection.
and that of others
here at St. Michael's.
we should send her
back to the convent.
Evil isn't confined to the
walls of this institution.
I'd feel better having her here.
I can work with her.
Keep an eye on her.
Work with her? In what sense?
I'd like to teach
her. Your Eminence.
That's against all precedent.
all doctrine.
Nothing formal.
Just enough to protect herself
and others.
I'm not sure of the
exact nature of it.
But this relationship she has...
it's personal.
But. Father.
we all have a personal
relationship with God.
Not with God. Sister.
With the Devil.
The
citadel has fallen.
The walls have crumbled.
Black smoke blots out the sun.
Because. as some of
you may already know.
we have a female
student in the class
as an observer.
Sister Ann will
be accompanying us
on our rounds for
the rest of the term.
Now pay close attention.
The nuances of our craft require
active learning to truly understand.
So. group one.
let's descend into the
mouth of hell. shall we?
Clear your minds
of all thoughts but prayer.
You must remain resolute
despite the distractions.
It can be the difference
between life and death
for both you...
and the afflicted.
The subject is a
recent admission.
Dr. Peters' preliminary diagnosis
was idiopathic epilepsy.
The subject was moved
here to observation
when she began to
exhibit behavior
that Dr. Peters
couldn't explain.
Natalie is 10 years old.
We have to act quickly to
halt any further escalation.
I need two volunteers.
I'll go. Father.
Very well.
You will take the lead.
Who would like to
assist Father Dante?
I will.
Father Raymond.
The armor of God.
Each of you have performed
a simple exorcism
every time you baptized a child.
Cleansing them of
their original sin.
That was baptism by holy water.
This is baptism by fire.
Remember. the name "Lucifer"
derives from the Latin
term "lucem ferre."
"Bringer of light."
The Devil will shine his light
into the darkest. deepest
recesses of your mind.
exposing your innermost secrets.
Your deepest pain.
He will use this pain
to break into your soul.
You must look past the girl.
She is as much demon as victim.
In Nomine Patris. et
Filii. et Spiritus Sancti.
Amen. Amen.
Christ. have mercy.
Strike terror.
Lord. into the beast now
defiling this innocent child.
Stretch out your
mighty hand. Lord.
And cast this demon out of
your servant. Natalie Hope.
We cast you out.
No!
Stay far from this
creature of God.
For it is He
who commands you.
He who flung you headlong...
No. Oh. shit.
Father...
Pray. Pray together.
For it is He
who commands you.
Oh. he who flung you headlong
from the heights of Heaven
into the depths of
Hell!
Una chica.
Don't stop.
Commit to the words.
For it is He who commands you.
He who flung you headlong
from the heights of Heaven
into the depths of Hell.
Into the depths of Hell.
It is
He who commands...
Let me in!
Lord. repel this Devil's powers.
By the incarnation.
passion. resurrection.
and ascension of our
Lord Jesus Christ.
I command you to depart
this child of God.
Father.
Say something. Say
something. Father.
Natalie.
Natalie. can you hear me?
Sister Ann. don't deviate
from the scripture.
Natalie.
Natalie. I'm here.
I'm here with you.
I'm scared.
Natalie. I'm here.
Go!
Father.
Give place. abominable creature.
Give way to Christ.
You are a shield about me.
my glory.
the lifter of my head.
Sister. with me now.
I cast you forth
into outer darkness
where everlasting
ruin awaits you.
In the name of our Lord
Jesus Christ. I cast you out.
Hey.
Hi. sweetie. It's okay.
She's okay.
I have to start wearing
adult diapers to class.
You and me both.
To you.
Hey. who knows what would've happened
if you hadn't stepped in there.
It's not a sin to take a
little victory lap. right?
No. I thought I
got through to her.
For...
a moment.
But... FATHER
DANTE: Hey. you did.
And it weakened the demon
'cause Natalie was still
in there somewhere.
I don't know.
If Father Quinn
hadn't stepped in...
You okay?
Uh. yeah.
I think this was meant for me.
Why?
My baby sister. Emilia.
She. uh...
She was raped.
She got pregnant.
I'm so sorry.
She. uh... She lost the baby.
She's been afflicted ever since.
Hi.
How are you feeling?
Kinda sleepy.
This isn't my room.
No.
This is a special room.
I had a bad dream.
I'm sorry.
Can you tell me what
you remember about it?
I was in a room.
It was kinda like this room.
And...
there were people.
They were all yelling.
Were they yelling at you?
Couldn't understand
most of them.
I think they were
talking to someone else.
Who?
The voice.
Whose voice?
He tells me things.
Promises me things.
Sometimes...
he shows me things.
They're bad.
It's all right.
You can tell me.
You were there.
But...
you weren't yelling.
Natalie?
Natalie wasn't
cleansed. was she?
We're not sure.
The demon may have
undertaken temporary refuge.
Will the Rite be
administered again?
The girl will remain
in observation.
If she escalates further.
it may be beyond our
capacity to deal with.
She'll be transferred
to the Vatican.
You mean she might
be a terminal case?
I want to stay with her. Father.
I've made a connection.
That's exactly the problem.
The exorcist is a confessor
and an intercessor.
not a friend.
But what if I can help her?
Terminal cases are the most
complex and delicate we face.
They can only be handled by
the most skilled exorcists.
If you want to help her.
pray.
Your power is in the
spirit. Not the flesh.
She may still make
a full recovery.
Sister. Cardinal Matthews
is requesting this urgently.
So. what
happened when the soldiers
came to your house that day?
It was me and my
two younger sisters.
They said one of
us could go. I ran.
I didn't wait for
anything. I just ran.
You
ran away and...
and the soldiers
shot your sisters?
Yes.
Mila. tell me
about the voice that you heard.
I kept hearing those shots.
The demon spoke to me in
the sound of those gunshots.
He took control.
Okay.
But then you were
cleansed. right?
You received the
Rite of Exorcism.
And you were healed.
"Healed"?
I kept cutting.
but the body is still here.
You did
that to yourself?
I prayed for God's forgiveness.
I prayed and I prayed.
but deep down I knew.
I didn't deserve forgiveness.
My mother felt guilt
for what she had done.
I was alone with her.
Annie?
Where are you?
Annie!
What you're
describing is terrifying.
It's traumatic.
Memories like these
are so hard to face.
Your mother. she eventually...
She took her own life.
And you felt
responsible for her death.
That's a common
trauma response. Ann.
For the victim to feel shame.
And the only way to
disarm these memories
is to drag them into the light.
Confront the trauma.
What're you
doing down here?
What's going on with Natalie?
They restricted access.
Why?
No idea.
Maybe they're transferring her.
Father Dante.
Hi.
Right.
Father.
You can't let Natalie
be transferred.
I've seen the records.
The mortality rate for
terminal cases is over 90%.
Our faith does not reside
in statistics. Sister.
No. No. it doesn't.
But I don't think that
it resides strictly
in the word of the Rite either.
No?
The Rite has stood for millennia
as the received word of God.
And you have notes?
Where did you read
these records anyway?
I know. I broke the rules.
But there is a lonely. frightened
little girl at the center of this.
You tread on precarious ground
when you make this
fight personal.
But it is personal.
Father. That is the point.
You said yourself that
exorcism is about nuance.
And yet. we have never
even considered it
from the victim's perspective.
So what does the demon want?
It wants to dehumanize
the possessed
and make them feel
unworthy of God's love.
Our goal should be to
connect with the possessed
and help them fight
for their own humanity.
Let them know we see
them. not just the demon.
Is it not possible that there
are cases. unique cases.
that the Rite
cannot account for?
What makes these cases unique?
Cases where the victim's shame
and guilt are so profound
that they invite the demon in.
And they want to suffer.
They surrender control.
So where does Natalie's
shame come from? Hmm?
She is an innocent child.
I don't know.
Lucifer was once the most beautiful
and powerful angel in Heaven.
But he became prideful
and God cast him out.
That... That's it. Sister.
I believe in you. more
than you can imagine.
But you have to understand
the danger here.
If you shun the Church
to follow your own will.
you will find yourself
wandering in the darkness.
Alone.
Father.
I heard what you said.
They can't let
Natalie be transferred.
She won't come back. I agree.
And we don't have much time.
What do you mean?
So. what if there was a way that you
could prove to them that you're right.
Your sister.
She's possessed.
Ann. I know she is.
And her episodes just
keep getting worse.
I tried to have her
admitted here. but...
it's complicated for the Church.
Because of her baby.
She's devout. Ann.
you talk about guilt.
She had to make an
impossible decision.
And it's eating away at her.
She let the demon in.
You want to attempt an
unauthorized exorcism?
Not alone.
Please. Ann.
My sister doesn't
have much time left.
And I saw you with Natalie.
You have a gift.
You connect with the possessed.
You see past the demon
and into the person.
If you really believe
what you're saying...
Natalie is still possessed.
And she's still alive.
Hi. Mama.
Mi hijo.
My mother says
she's been asleep for three days.
Are you ready?
Are you?
Chiquita. this is...
This is Ann. She's
here to help you. Okay?
Emilia.
Can you hear me?
It won't stop.
The voice?
It has no power over you
that you don't give it.
Okay.
"Blessed is the one whose
transgressions are forgiven.
whose sins are covered."
"Blessed is the one whose sin the
Lord does not count against them.
"and in whose spirit
is no deceit."
You know what it feels like to
have something growing inside you.
Don't you. Sister?
Yes.
At least this bitch knew
who
the baby's father was.
Help me!
Please! Please!
Emilia. listen to me.
Focus on the sound of my voice.
She can't hear you.
Emilia. the demon preys
on the most devout
because our guilt.
it is the deepest.
Ann...
Open your eyes.
This flesh... This flesh is
yours. It is not his.
You don't have to
hide from it anymore.
I know you wanted
the baby to be gone.
You wanted it to be over.
Like you did?
Yes.
Ann... I know despair.
How shame gets in
and rips you open.
It's always there
and it just grows.
Ann.
Psalm 86:5.
"For you. O Lord. are
good and forgiving.
"abounding in steadfast
love to all who call..."
He can never shut out
God's love for you.
Don't hide from it.
All of the pain.
Follow me into the pain.
We'll go there together.
"For you. O Lord. are good and
forgiving..."
Confess to yourself and
you will be forgiven.
How did you do...
It's over.
Emilia. you're free.
You freed yourself.
That tattoo above your wrist...
is that a gang thing?
It was. yeah.
I got pregnant when I was 15.
Was too wasted to remember
who the father was.
They kicked me out
of my foster home.
And by God's grace. I
found my way to the shelter
run by the Sisters
of St. Mary.
And they took me in.
Cared for me.
What about the baby?
The sisters arranged
for her adoption.
I only held her for a moment.
But I. uh...
I've carried her
with me ever since.
I abandoned her.
And I pray that...
that God can forgive me.
"For you. O Lord. are good...
"and forgiving."
Hey.
He already has.
Cardinal Matthews
is calling for you.
Yes. Sister.
Your Eminence.
I'm afraid I have
some tragic news.
Father Dante's sister. Emilia.
took her own life last night.
What?
Emilia's mother
reported to the parish
that you attempted
an exorcism on her.
Is this true?
I'm so sorry.
Then it is true.
Yes. I thought that I...
You thought you knew
better than a church
that has stood for
thousands of years?
Of course not.
You overestimated
your competence
and stepped right into
the Devil's snare.
Please. It wasn't
Sister Ann's fault.
I was desperate.
You weren't remotely prepared to
take on an exorcism like this.
Demons retreat
to avoid further assault.
It was a deception.
Not a defeat.
You've both betrayed the
trust the Church put in you.
That I advocated for.
I think...
I think it's best if I return to my
place with the Sisters of St. Mary.
Come in.
Thank you for seeing me.
Well.
this is grim.
Although. apparently. the
abbess. Benedetta Carlini.
spent the last 35 years of her life
in a 6-by-6 hole in the ground.
On her dying day. she said she
never had a moment's regret.
I didn't realize
you were so familiar
with the lexicon of
Catholic mystics.
I'm an academic.
I like to hear both sides.
I heard about what happened.
Father Dante's sister.
I really thought I'd
gotten through to her.
I came...
to give you this.
"Brain. mind. and
body in the healing of...
"trauma."
I know you're a
one book kinda gal.
but I thought you might enjoy
some light exile reading.
Ann.
I've had patients that...
no matter how hard I tried.
I couldn't save them.
You might be relieved to know
that Natalie was released.
What?
She was cleared
after observation.
and she went home with
her mother this morning.
You're on a new path.
It's natural to feel lost.
Keep going.
Father Dante.
Sister Ann.
What're you doing here?
Something's happened
at the school.
Natalie.
Walk with me.
She suffered a sudden relapse
and they rushed her back.
A priest and
two orderlies were killed.
I will pray for their souls
and for Natalie's deliverance.
She's a terminal case. She'll
be transferred back to Rome.
No. we don't have time for that.
She has hours left. not days.
They moved her to the catacombs
beneath the main building.
They still have
holding cells there.
Holding cells?
Part of the original structure.
They have her totally sealed away
from the rest of the academy.
I don't think they're
willing to risk more lives
to attempt another exorcism.
Why?
Why come and tell me this?
Because she gave me this.
I got this when I first
arrived here at St. Mary's.
And I wrapped it around
the wrist of my little girl
the day I gave her away.
Father.
Natalie is my daughter.
The demon is using her
to get to me.
I can't let her suffer for me.
I won't.
Most glorious Prince of the heavenly
armies. Michael the Archangel.
Defend us in battle
against principalities
and powers.
Against the rulers of
darkness in this world...
against the spirits
of wickedness...
in these high places.
May Thy mercy descend
upon us. Lord.
Amen.
Is that holy water?
Yeah.
It's the baptismal well.
Spirits.
demonic forces.
satanic powers.
principalities. along with...
air. water. fire...
Turn around.
Right now.
Raymond. move.
Are you insane?
She killed your
sister. She did not.
Move.
Don't act
like a stranger.
You've got my invitation.
Natalie.
Let them leave.
Ann.
Natalie.
Raymond.
Raymond!
No.
Why did you leave me. Mommy?
I was so scared and
alone without you.
You're not Natalie.
I know who I'm talking to.
Then be honest for once.
Why did you give her away?
I was 15. No.
That's not it.
What happened to your mother?
She sacrificed
herself to save you.
That's why you
couldn't be a mother.
You couldn't be responsible
for another life.
But I can now.
Ann. Ann!
You win.
I love you so much. Mommy.
Natalie.
Ann!
Run.
What's happening?
Natalie. I'm Father Dante.
We're gonna play a game of hide-and-seek.
Okay? I need you to go through here.
Come on.
Okay. Listen to me.
I need you to find the very best
hiding spot that you can. okay? Go.
Go.
Come on.
Ann.
Ann. I know you're
in there. okay?
I need you to
listen to me. okay?
Just let Natalie go. please?
Let her go.
Don't be scared.
Annie.
Let go. Annie.
Annie. let go.
I'm here with you.
My mother never stopped
fighting the demon from within.
Right until the end.
Let go.
I'm
here with you.
Ann!
Blessed Michael the
Archangel.
Defend us in this
hour of conflict.
Be our safeguard.
Thrust Satan down to hell.
Your
power is in the spirit.
Not the flesh.
You're
on a new path.
Keep going.
You don't have to
hide from it anymore.
All of the pain.
Let go. Annie.
Ann.
If you follow me. we can
finish up the paperwork.
Of course.
Hi.
I know it doesn't
seem like it now.
but when you are home
with your family
and your friends.
you'll forget all
about this place.
But I don't want to
forget about you.
Then don't.
Your train.
I will treasure this.
Thank you.
Without your intercession. the
enemy would've won this battle.
You clearly have an important role
to play in the Church. Sister Ann.
We've discussed
where your talents might be best placed.
So. we are rewarding you an academic
research fellowship at the Vatican.
A fellowship in exorcism.
Thank you.
It's an unprecedented honor.
We think you could
make a difference there. Sister.
Thank you... for everything.
Mmm.
You know. technically speaking.
you're not the first
female exorcist.
St. Catherine of
Siena?
Indeed.
She died in 1380.
Right.
So the first in seven centuries.
I'll take it.
If I may give you one
last word of advice?
Of course. Father.
Be careful.
Now that you know the Devil.
the Devil knows you.
The
overnight low near 47th.
Rain tapering off tomorrow
afternoon followed by...
As for your weather today.
with the winds out of the
southeast at 12 miles per hour.
it's currently 58 degrees.
Annie.